*) can we use many claims out of persitent volumes?

     The mapping between persistentVolume and persistentVolumeClaim is always one to one. Even When you 
     delete the claim, PersistentVolume still remains as we set persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy is set to
     Retain and It will not be reused by any other claims. Below is the spec to create the Persistent Volume.
                apiVersion: v1
                kind: PersistentVolume
                metadata:
                name: mypv
                spec:
                capacity:
                storage: 5Gi
                volumeMode: Filesystem
                accessModes:
                 - ReadWriteOnce
                persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Retain

*) what kind of objects do you create, when dashboard like applications like queries the kubernetes API to get
   some data?

    You should be creating serviceAccount. A service account creates a token and tokens are stored inside a secret object.
    By default Kubernetes automatically mounts the default service account. However, we can disable this property by
    setting "automountServiceAccountToken: false" in our spec. Also, note each namespace will have a service account
             apiVersion: v1
             kind: ServiceAccount
             metadata:
             name: my-sa
              automountServiceAccountToken: false

*) what is the difference between pods and jobs?

   A Pod always ensure that a container is running whereas the Job ensures that the pods run to its completion. Job is to
   do a finite task.
   Examples:
    $  kubectl get pods
     NAME           READY STATUS   RESTARTS AGE
     mypod1         1/1 Running     0 59s
    $  kubectl get job
     NAME     DESIRED SUCCESSFUL   AGE
     mypod1     1 0                19s

*) how to deploy a feature application with zero time down time?

   *) By default Deployment in Kubernetes using RollingUpdate as a strategy. Let's say we have an example that creates a
      deployment 
        $ kubectl run nginx --image=nginx # creates a deployment
        $  kubectl get deploy
         NAME    DESIRED  CURRENT UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE AGE
         nginx    1.1.1       0                 7s
  *) Now let’s assume we are going to update the nginx image
       $ kubectl set image deployment nginx nginx=nginx:1.15 # updates the image 
  *) Now when we check the replica sets
       $ kubectl get replicasets # get replica sets
         NAME               DESIRED CURRENT READY   AGE
         nginx-65899c769f       0.0.0               7m
         nginx-6c9655f5bb       1.1.1               13s
  *) From the above, we can notice that one more replica set was added and then the other replica set was brought down
       $ kubectl rollout status deployment nginx 
       # check the status of a deployment rollout
       $ kubectl rollout history deployment nginx
       # check the revisions in a deployment
       $  kubectl rollout history deployment nginx
        deployment.extensions/nginx
        REVISION  CHANGE-CAUSE
          1         <none>
          2         <none>

*) how to monitor that pod is always runnning?

     A liveness probe always checks if an application in a pod is running,  if this check fails the container gets
     restarted. This is ideal in many scenarios where the container is running but somehow the application inside a
     container crashes.
               spec:
               containers:
              - name: liveness
                image: k8s.gcr.io/liveness
                 args:
                - /server
                 livenessProbe:
                   httpGet:
                      path: /healthz

*) what are the types of multi-container pod pattenes?

   sidecar:-
     A pod spec which runs the main container and a helper container that does some utility work, but that is not
     necessarily needed for the main container to work.
  adapter:-
    The adapter container will inspect the contents of the app's file, does some kind of restructuring and reformat 
    it, and write the correctly formatted output to the location.
  ambassador:-
    It connects containers with the outside world. It is a proxy that allows other containers to connect to a port on 
    localhost.

*) what is differnence between replication controller and replication set?

     The only difference between replication controllers and replica sets is the selectors. Replication controllers 
     don't have selectors in their spec and also note that replication controllers are obsolete now in the latest 
     version of Kubernetes.
         apiVersion: apps/v1
         kind: ReplicaSet
         metadata:
         name: frontend
         labels:
         app: guestbook
         tier: frontend
         spec:
     replica set:-
        replicas: 3
           selector:
              matchLabels:
               tier: frontend
             template:
             metadata:
             labels:
             tier: frontend
             spec:
             containers:
           - name: php-redis
           image: gcr.io/google_samples/gb-frontend:v3

*) how do you tie service to a pod (or) set of pods?

    By declaring pods with the label(s) and by having a selector in the service which acts as a glue to stick the 
    service to the pods.

                kind: Service
                   apiVersion: v1
                   metadata:
                   name: my-service
                    spec:
                       selector:
                       app: MyApp-nginx
                  ports:
                     - protocol: TCP
                  port: 80
   Let's say if we have a set of Pods that carry a label "app=MyApp-nginx" the service will start routing to those pods.

*) having a pod with 2 container,can i ping each other?

    Containers on same pod act as if they are on the same machine. You can ping them using "localhost:port" itself. Every 
    container in a pod shares the same IP. You can `ping localhost` inside a pod. Two containers in the same pod share an
    IP and a network namespace and They are both localhost to each other. Discovery works like this: Component A's pods
    -> Service Of Component B -> Component B's pods and Services have domain names "servicename.namespace.svc.cluster".local, 
     the dns search path of pods by default includes that stuff, so a pod in namespace Foo can find a Service bar in same
     namespace Foo by connecting to `bar`

*) does the rooling update with same full set of replicas=1 makes sences?

   *) No, because there is only 1 replica, any changes to state full set would result in an outage. So rolling update of a
      StatefulSet would need to tear down one (or more) old pods before replacing them. In case 2 replicas, a rolling update
      will create the second pod, which it will not be succeeded, the PD is locked by first (old) running pod, the rolling
      update is not deleting the first pod in time to release the lock on the PDisk in time for the second pod to use it.
      If there's only one that rolling update goes 1 -> 0 -> 1.f the app can run with multiple identical instances 
      concurrently, use a Deployment and roll 1 -> 2 -> 1 instead.
  *) This is a common yet one of the most important Kubernetes interview questions and answers for experienced professionals,
     don't miss this one.

*) differnent ways to provide API-security?

    *)  Use the correct auth mode with API server authorization-mode=Node,RBAC Ensure all traffic is protected by TLS Use 
        API authentication (smaller cluster may use certificates but larger multi-tenants may want an AD (or) some OIDC
        authentication).
    *) Make kubeless protect its API via authorization-mode=Webhook. Make sure the kube-dashboard uses a restrictive RBAC
       role policy Monitor RBAC failures Remove default ServiceAccount permissions Filter egress to Cloud API metadata APIs
       Filter out all traffic coming into kube-system namespace except DNS.
    *) A default deny policy on all inbound on all namespaces is good . You explicitly allow per deployment.Use a 
       "podsecurity policy" to have container restrictions and protect the Node Keep kube at the latest version.

*) what does kube-proxy do?

    kube-proxy does 2 things
      *) for every Service, open a random port on the node and proxy that port to the Service.
      *) install and maintain iptables rules which capture accesses to a virtual ip:port and redirect those to the port
         in (1)
*) what runs inside worker node?

    Container Runtime
     *) Kubelet
     *) kube-proxy
        Kubernetes Worker node is a machine where workloads get deployed. The workloads are in the form of containerised
        applications and because of that, every node in the cluster must run the container run time such as docker in order
        to run those workloads. You can have multiple masters mapped to multiple worker nodes or a single master having a 
        single worker node. Also, the worker nodes are not gossiping or doing leader election or anything that would lead 
        to odd-quantities. The role of the container run time is to start and managed containers. The kubelet is responsible
        for running the state of each node and it receives commands and works to do from the master. It also does the health
        check of the nodes and make sure they are healthy. Kubelet is also responsible for metric collectins of pods as well.
        The kube-proxy is a component that manages host subnetting and makes services available to other components.

*) is there a way to make a pod to automatically come up when the host restarts?

     Yes using replication controller but it may reschedule to another host if you have multiple nodes in the cluster.

*) is there other way to update configmap for deployment without pod restarts?

      *) well you need to have some way of triggering the reload. ether do a check every minute or have a reload endpoint 
        for an api or project the configmap as a volume, could use inotify to be aware of the change. Depends on how the
        configmap is consumed by the container. If env vars, then no. If a volumeMount, then the file is updated in the
        container ready to be consumed by the service but it needs to reload the file
     *) The container does not restart. if the configmap is mounted as a volume it is updated dynamically. if it is an 
        environment variable it stays as the old value until the container is restarted.volume mount the configmap into the
        pod, the projected file is updated periodically. NOT realtime. then have the app recognise if the config on disk has
        changed and reload.

*) do rolling updates declared with a deployment take effect if i manually delete pods of the replica set with kubectl
   delete pods (or) with dashboard? will the minimum required a number of pods be maintained?

    *) Yes, the scheduler will make sure (as long as you have the correct resources) that the number of desired pods are met.
       If you delete a pod, it will recreate it. Also deleting a service won't delete the Replica set. if you remove Service
       (or) deployment you want to remove all resources which Service created. Also having a single replica for a deployment 
       is usually not recommended because you cannot scale out and are treating in a specific way
    *) Any app should be `Ingress` -> `Service` -> `Deployment` -> (volume mount or 3rd-party cloud storage)
    *) You can skip ingress and just have `LoadBalancer (service)` -> `Deployment` (or Pod but they don't auto restart,
       deployments do)

*) what is the difference between external ip and loadbalancer ip?

      loadBalancerIP is not a core Kubernetes concept, you need to have a cloud provider or controller like metallb set up 
      the loadbalancer IP. When MetalLB sees a Service of type=LoadBalancer with a ClusterIP created, MetalLB allocates an 
      IP from its pool and assigns it as that Service's External LoadBalanced IP.the externalIP, on the other hand, is set
      up by kubelet so that any traffic that is sent to any node with that externalIP as the final destination will get
      routed.`ExternalIP` assumes you already have control over said IP and that you have correctly arranged for traffic to
      that IP to eventually land at one or more of your cluster nodes and its is a tool for implementing your own 
      load-balancing. Also you shouldn't use it on cloud platforms like GKE, you want to set `spec.loadBalancerIP` to the 
      IP you preallocated. When you try to create the service using .`loadBalancerIP` instead of `externalIP`, it doesn't
      create the ephemeral port and the external IP address goes to `<pending>` and never updates.

*) a pod is running 2 containers, when 1 stops- another container is still running on this event, i want terminate this 
  pod?

     You need to add a liveness and readiness probe to query each container,  if the probe fails, the entire pod will be 
     restarted .add liveness object that calls any api that returns 200 to you from another container and both liveness 
     and readiness probes run in infinite loops for example, If X depended to Y So add liveness  in X that check the health 
     of Y.Both readiness/liveness probes always have to run after the container has been started .kubelet component performs
     the liveness/readiness checks and set initialDelaySeconds and it can be anything from a few seconds to a few minutes
     depending on app start time


